
IMPORTANT POINTS

1. Why do we remove the cross-condition means before doing PCA?
	Central to population analyses is the removing each neuron's cross condition mean from itself. This step is implicit in PCA done via eigenvalue decomposition, but not implicit in PCA via SVD. Why is this done? The main reason is because we want to focus all further analyses on dimensions of the data where activity differs strongly across conditions. When the cross-condition mean (of each neuron) is not subtracted (i.e. data is not centred), the first PC plane will capture response patterns that vary only weekly across conditions. The first PC will be dominated by strong response features that are similar across conditions. These response features are common in neural data, and this is especially the case when the conditions are highly similar (e.g. very similar visual stimuli). 


2. What sources contribute to temporally complex firing rate patterns of neurons?
	Seely et al. (2016) argue that there are 2+ non-exclusive sources that contribute to temporal structure in patterns of neural firing. First, temporal structure may reflect external variables that drive or are being encoded by the population. Secondly (but not exclusive), temporal structure may reflect internal population-level dynamics. What does that mean? Specifically, if the population were to simply respond to the presence of an input, then much of the temporal response properties will be described by the input variables. Alternatively, if the population of neurons receives some input, but then acts on said input in a structured, similar manner across all inputs, then the population will display similar temporal dynamics across conditions (and on top of any input-encoding)- i.e. the population response will display internal temporal dynamics. A more mathy way of saying this is to note that responses that display only encoding might be used to drive some output (e.g. muscle activity). However, systems with internal dynamics that drive the same output (muscle activity) may not be estimated from the muscle activity itself as the transformation function is not invertible. 
	Tuning for external variables (or encoding) will thus constrain responses across neurons (to a larger degree than across conditions). Internal temporal dynamics constrains structure across conditions (what is similar temporal dynamics across conditions). Neuron-constrained and condition-constrained (or neuron-mode and condition-mode) structure is not visible at the single-neuron level. And single neurons from both constrained structures may display similar surface level features (e.g. similar response onset times, multi-phasic responses, etc.).


3. What is an autonomous dynamical system?
	Churchland et al. (2012) report M1 population responses are characterized by rotational dynamical structure. Their analyses are constrained to find a structure that transforms the population state by a constant transformation at each timestep (i.e. the change in state at each timepoint is well characterized by the same rotational transformation). An autonomous dynamical system is one that can thus be fully characterized by applying the same transformation at each timestep (hence "autonomous"), and said transformation results in some change in neural state space over time (hence "dynamic"). In other words, the future neural state would always be a consistent function of the present neural state. Important to note is that neural populations that demonstrate this system behaviour will also likely display encoding or tuning to external variables, but this tuning is incidental


4. What is an input-driven system?
	An input driven system, in the context of neural populations, is a set of neurons whose responses are best predicted by the conditions and not by a separate transformation outside of the conditions. For example, an input-driven system might respond to visual stimuli, and the temporal responses may differ substantially per stimulus. In an autonomous dynamical system, the temporal responses will evolve similarly over time, regardless of the inputs/starting state. From my understanding, an input-driven system thus can also display strong dynamical structure, but this structure is not consistent across conditions of varying similarity (in contrast to an AUTONOMOUS dynamical system). In other words, the future neural state would NOT always be a consistent function of the present neural state. Therefore, it is common to call an input-driven system as one that encodes the external variable directly (e.g. muscle activity), and not some condition-independent process that is applied to the variable (e.g. dynamics that produce muscle activity).  


5. Why do population-level analyses?
	There exists a large number of cells in the brain. Although our behavioural and processing repertoire is vast, there is a degree of redundancy in that there are more neurons than needed if each neuron was assigned a specific function. Why might we need redundancy? The easiest answer is to combat biological noise. Different from measurement noise, biological noise here refers to inconsistent firing patterns of a neuron when presented with exactly the same stimulus. A great example of redundancy is the motor system. The motor system in the cortex is highly redundant. An infinite number of neural patterns could be recruited to produce a specific pattern of muscle activation. Having a distributed code to produce this activation is ideal as it means the produced behaviour will largely be consistent (i.e. largely invariant even in the presence of biological noise). With this understanding, we can also appreciate that the explicit encoding of variables by single neurons is thus not necessary- instead, the population as a whole would encode these variables to achieve a desired behaviour/process. Given this redundancy is likely not what we are interested in studying, we use data reduction techniques to find the underlying population structure/latent components and perform analyses on these components. 